Cumulative throughput 2022.2 (#11831)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/auto_device_selection.md

@endsphinxdirective

This article introduces how Automatic Device Selection works and how to use it for inference.

## How AUTO Works

> 

Author: Yes, for long articles, I think we should have a brief summary sentence at the beginning, and I have been doing this for a while with other articles which you seemed fine with. :) 
I think we are avoiding adding a heading right after another heading without any leading sentence. The "How AUTO Works" heading is following the beginning sentence - that's why we should have that. The beginning sentence and the heading work together.
We can discuss more about the structure in our meeting (but I think we've discussed it before and thought we all agree on that.)

@endsphinxdirective

To put it simply, when loading the model to the first device on the list fails, AUTO will try to load it to the next device in line, until one of them succeeds. 

> What is important, **AUTO always starts inference with CPU**, as it provides very low latency and can start inference with no additional delays. 

Author: ```suggestion
What is important, **AUTO always starts inference with the CPU of the system**, as it provides very low latency and can start inference with no additional delays. 
```

> While CPU is performing inference, AUTO continues to load the model to the device best suited for the purpose and transfers the task to it when ready.

Author: I think it's more generic fact. Or we can say "AUTO always starts inference with the CPU of the system"?

> While CPU is performing inference, AUTO continues to load the model to the device best suited for the purpose and transfers the task to it when ready.

Author: ```suggestion
While the CPU is performing inference, AUTO continues to load the model to the device best suited for the purpose and transfers the task to it when ready.
```

This way, the devices which are much slower in compiling models, GPU being the best example, do not impede inference at its initial stages.

> For example, if you use a CPU and a GPU, first-inference latency of AUTO will be better than that of GPU alone.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, if you use a CPU and a GPU, the first-inference latency of AUTO will be better than using GPU alone.
```
Sorry I need to revert this commit. "GPU" is not comparing with "AUTO" in this sentence so we cannot use "that of GPU".

Note that if you choose to exclude CPU from the priority list, it will be unable to support the initial model compilation stage.
     
![autoplugin_accelerate]

> This mechanism can be easily observed in our [Benchmark Application sample](#Benchmark App Info) showing how the first-inference latency (the time it takes to compile the model and perform the first inference) is reduced when using AUTO. For example: 

Author: ```suggestion
This mechanism can be easily observed in the [Using AUTO with Benchmark app sample](#using-auto-with-openvino-samples-and-benchmark-app) section, showing how the first-inference latency (the time it takes to compile the model and perform the first inference) is reduced when using AUTO. For example: 
```

   The longer the process runs, the closer realtime performance will be to that of the best-suited device.
@endsphinxdirective

## Using AUTO 

> Following the OpenVINO™ naming convention, the Automatic Device Selection mode is assigned the label of “AUTO”. It may be defined with no additional parameters, resulting in defaults being used, or configured further with the following setup options: 

Author: ```suggestion
Following the OpenVINO™ naming convention, the Automatic Device Selection mode is assigned the label of “AUTO.” It may be defined with no additional parameters, resulting in defaults being used, or configured further with the following setup options: 
```

| | `ov::hint::PerformanceMode::CUMULATIVE_THROUGHPUT`  |                                                                                                     |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| | `ov::hint::model_priority`                          | | Indicates the priority for a model.                                                               |
| | **Values**:                                         | | IMPORTANT:                                                                                        |
| | `ov::hint::Priority::HIGH`                          | | This property is not fully supported yet.                                                         |
| | `ov::hint::Priority::MEDIUM`                        |                                                                                                     |
| | `ov::hint::Priority::LOW`                           |                                                                                                     |

> +-------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Author: Let's see how it works in the output.

@endsphinxdirective

Inference with AUTO is configured similarly to when device plugins are used:
you compile the model on the plugin with configuration and execute inference.

### Device Candidates and Priority
The <device candidate list> enables you to customize the priority and limit the choice of devices available to AUTO. 
- If <device candidate list> is not specified, AUTO assumes all the devices present in the system can be used. 

> - If `AUTO` without any device names is specified, AUTO assumes all the devices present in the system can be used, and will load the network to all devices and run inference based on their default priorities, from high to low.

Author: repeat what information?

| | `ov::hint::model_priority`      | | **Values**:                                                               |
| |                                 | |       `ov::hint::Priority::HIGH`                                          |
| |                                 | |       `ov::hint::Priority::MEDIUM`                                        |
| |                                 | |       `ov::hint::Priority::LOW`                                           |
| |                                 | |                                                                           |
| |                                 | | Indicates the priority for a model.                                       |
| |                                 | | IMPORTANT: This property is not fully supported yet.                      |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

@endsphinxdirective

Inference with AUTO is configured similarly to when device plugins are used:
you compile the model on the plugin with configuration and execute inference.

### Device Candidates and Priority

> The <device candidate list> enables you to customize the priority and limit the choice of devices available to AUTO. 

Author: ```suggestion
The device candidate list enables you to customize the priority and limit the choice of devices available to AUTO. 
```

@endsphinxdirective

Note that OpenVINO Runtime lets you use “GPU” as an alias for “GPU.0” in function calls. More details on enumerating devices can be found in [Working with devices](supported_plugins/Device_Plugins.md).

#### Checking Available Devices

To check what devices are present in the system, you can use Device API, as listed below. For information on how to use it, see [Query device properties and configuration](supported_plugins/config_properties.md).

> @sphinxdirective

Author: Aha, thanks for reminding. The original text has included the "See ... for reference" sentence within the code, so I was trying to clean it up and applying the convention of using tabs for all scenarios. The output looks better than without tabs to me.

.. tab:: C++   

   .. code-block:: sh

      ov::runtime::Core::get_available_devices() 

   See the Hello Query Device C++ Sample for reference.

.. tab:: Python

   .. code-block:: sh

      openvino.runtime.Core.available_devices

   See the Hello Query Device Python Sample for reference.

@endsphinxdirective

> #### Excluding CPU from AUTO

Author: > Not only CPU, but also works with -GPU or -GPU.0 etc.

Yes, but I'm thinking if CPU is the most common case, and we do not encourage users to exclude GPU?

> #### Excluding CPU from AUTO

Reviewer: From functionality perspective, developer can use this feature to reserve any device. 

Could we use HW device in description and use CPU in example as common case?

@endsphinxdirective

Note that OpenVINO Runtime lets you use “GPU” as an alias for “GPU.0” in function calls. More details on enumerating devices can be found in [Working with devices](supported_plugins/Device_Plugins.md).

#### Checking Available Devices

To check what devices are present in the system, you can use Device API, as listed below. For information on how to use it, see [Query device properties and configuration](supported_plugins/config_properties.md).

@sphinxdirective

.. tab:: C++   

   .. code-block:: sh

      ov::runtime::Core::get_available_devices() 

   See the Hello Query Device C++ Sample for reference.

.. tab:: Python

   .. code-block:: sh

      openvino.runtime.Core.available_devices

   See the Hello Query Device Python Sample for reference.

@endsphinxdirective

> #### Excluding HW devices from AUTO device candidate-list

Author: ```suggestion
#### Excluding Hardware from Device Candidate List
```

> You can also exclude CPU from AUTO to reserve it for other jobs. AUTO will not use it for inference then. To do that, add a minus sign (-) before CPU in `AUTO: <device names>`, as in the following code:

Author: ```suggestion
You can also exclude hardware devices from AUTO, for example, reserve CPU for other jobs. AUTO will not use the devices for inference then. To do that, add a minus sign (-) before CPU in `AUTO: <device names>`, as in the following example:
```

@endsphinxdirective

> ## <a name="benchmark-app-info"></a>Using AUTO with OpenVINO Samples and Benchmark app

Author: ```suggestion
## Using AUTO with OpenVINO Samples and Benchmark app
```
